Hey well now that that's out of the way
let's talk
we tested 15,000 common words and
phrases against YouTube spots one by one
and determined which of those words will
cause a video to be demonetised when
used in the title if we took a
demonetised video and change the words
gay or lesbian to happy or friend every
single time the status of the video
changed to advertiser friendly are ones
we might expect YouTube dissents put you
to directly at odds with its progressive
messages and some of them only make
sense the robots come with dr. Davao as
we take a closer look at YouTube's
[Music]
expand they restricted us they
demonetized us types of thumbnail your
title in fact they pletely discriminate
against us our lgbtq+ content is being
demonetized restricted and not sent out
to viewers promised to fix it they lie
they were
that's advertising because of the gays
and still they claim inclusion even want
to march in our parade I don't think you
too big it's been a year and a half
since the secret rating system was
revealed and youtubers are still showing
up to work in the dark artificial
intelligence is scanning us and rating
us what the bot thinks we're talking
about determines who sees the video if
the bot finds a problem the video won't
appear in sub feeds and may not go out
in notifications but not only is the
rating hidden all of the results of the
bots scans are hidden as well the excuse
for hiding this information goes like
this if YouTube explains how the website
works bad actors can just slip through
the gaps in the center of course secrecy
may be more convenient for YouTube but
the trade-off is awful the lack of
transparency might lessen YouTube's
burden to address exploits or enforces
existing rules but it has a severely
negative impact across every channel at
once it's harder to criticize YouTube's
policies figure out if they're illegal
when we don't know unless of course we
tested the site figure them out all the
videos tests that were one to two
seconds long and featured no visual or
audio content that could trigger the
monetization fortunately this experiment
has shed some light on what words are
being banned on YouTube Andrew from the
YouTube analyze channel and YouTube
researcher CeeLo have compiled a list of
these words which is linked below so the
whole list is in alphabetical order
green means it's monetizable yellow
means that will get you demonetized if
it sees it in your like title and
description this list has just over
15,000 terms mainly pulled from the most
commonly used terms on oxford dictionary
the most used search terms and the most
used terms from urban dictionary the
list is best interpreted as a list of
negatively charged keywords as certain
words are deemed to be more severe than
others I think that every single word
has its own weight so you basically have
this scale where it's full green on one
side and full yellow on the other side
and there's a line somewhere that when
it crosses it goes from green to you
but the monetization about classifiers
have a hidden confidence level ranging
from zero to one if your video is above
YouTube's threshold your video will be d
monetized so there might be some words
that are just on the line that maybe one
day they're green one day they're yellow
and then there are other words you know
like maybe the N word that's like so far
yellow that it doesn't matter what
context it's in it's just gonna be
yellow no matter what straight and
heterosexual are green words gay and
homosexual are yellow perfectly
acceptable context is still Adi
monetized by the bot where the exact
same videos are monetized without the
LGBTQ terminology this is not a matter
of LGBTQ personality is being
demonetised for something that everyone
else would also be demonetized for such
as talking about sex or tragedy
this is LGBTQ terminology like gay and
lesbian being the sole reason for a
video being demonetised despite being
perfectly acceptable context speaking
out of the other side of their mouth
YouTube encourages gay creators to be
proud of their identity to express their
creativity they put out tribute videos
every Pride Month but what our lists
proved and what gay creators have never
been told is that they're allowed to be
gay
they just can't talk about it or they
won't get their paycheck
[Music]
when a bot has to monetize the video and
a creator has logged in and noticed this
they have the option of appealing this
decision the appeal then goes to a human
reviewer the decisions made by those
human reviewers then train the bots
whether they were correct in their
decision basically we've taken the
appeals data from the last several
months and we've looked at ok when have
people appealed where after a human
review we've agreed with the appeal
which means that the original decision
was not as accurate as it could have
been and then how do we kind of use that
information to tweak and tune and
improve the classifications up front
with so many videos being automatically
demonetised now that naturally creates a
lot of Appeals Google announced that it
was hiring 10,000 human reviewers to
deal with these in 2018 last year we
commend having over 10,000 people who
are working on controversial content
hiring that many new employees is
expensive so of course the workforce is
low skilled and low paid here's a
difficult question is LGBTQ opposition
stronger than average among the people
who would take this job the United
States has not yet reached a consensus
on issues like transgender access and
whether businesses can deny service the
same sex couples those issues are
contentious from state to state are the
bots continuing to reflect the biases of
these new employees regular folks who
didn't pursue a liberal arts education
and a blue state you know is any of the
work being outsourced to developing
nations our sources say that Lion Bridge
is one of the companies helping to train
these bots lion bridge employees have
talked about reviewing videos for Google
on this job board some of their
complaints are that they don't get
enough guidance and the instructions are
unclear sound familiar
one of the services that lion bridge
offers is training AI they employ a
massive army of stay-at-home workers and
they're currently hiring in all of these
countries in many of those places
homosexuality is still illegal Google is
the most powerful company in the world
and these are problems that most people
would prefer to ignore now you may have
heard the phrase the 800-pound gorilla
in the room
or the elephant if the biggest website
in the world is punishing the word gay
well maybe it's time to take the
controls away from the gorilla I'm a
doctor of hate and even I would never
allow evil gorillas and elephants to
control an army of robots pigs or
dolphins maybe because it also happens
and this has happened to me personally
that when I upload a video that contains
the word a gay or transsexual or
anything related to LGBTQ community
it gets D monetized and and that happens
like it has happened to me maybe three
times why is this like why does the
system react this way mm-hmm
I can just tell you categorically that
there is no list of words or key words
or terms or anything like that that is
going to go into our classifiers making
an a priori decision about whether
videos monetized or not and while we may
have made mistakes in the past the
nature of our algorithms is that they
continue to learn from those mistakes
continue to get better and we also have
programs in place and Google's striving
to be an industry leader in this area of
of things like machine learning fairness
this has been going on for two years now
which raises the question is this
disconnect between YouTube's public
advocacy and its secret content scanning
BOTS even seen as a problem or is it
like a helpful feature for global
expansion as YouTube's user base expands
into these 71 countries where
homosexuality is still illegal today
isn't it safe to say that advertisers
who are governed by those laws might not
be on the same page about gay pride
vlogs as a company based out of Mountain
View California and don't you dare
forget fabulous San Francisco actually
half of YouTube listeners today okay all
right
well that's good yes and YouTube wants
to continue expanding globally so did
they make a business decision to default
to a more conservative cultural standard
than they're comfortable admitting when
it comes down to it this is an
international website
so maybe de monetizing some gay speech
is just an unfortunate economic reality
no I don't think that it needs to be but
let's just say for a moment that it is
couldn't YouTube still clarify that to
the community and say look guys
we're trying to make you money in places
like Pakistan to where homosexuality is
illegal we don't like that but that's
the way it is please don't say these
terms or you're not going to get paid
it's just this discriminatory if you
never say this and even more exploitive
than if you do the way it is now YouTube
is firing gay employees without telling
them and still allowing them to do the
work laid off five years ago and no one
ever told them about it he won't be
receiving a paycheck anymore so it'll
just work itself out naturally if these
are banned words don't get creators
deserve to know that don't they deserve
a chance to take those words out of
their content or to look at these rules
and say yeah no thanks I can't live my
life straight because you're straight
I can't I just gotta live my life for me
and do it for me because it's my life
I've done my hair down I've worn the
dresses I've done things that aren't
natural to me to please other people
we always like to avoid confrontation
whenever possible we've just now
confirmed it with API testing but it's
been an open secret for some time you
can see in the comments section under
YouTube's gay-pride videos lots of
people who've crossed paths with the
bigoted Potts nice now you're gonna have
to do monetize your own video yeah you
compute everyone here on YouTube certain
monitors your terp said to monetize its
own channel so is this getting to
monetize for being a controversial topic
no all right makes video saying we love
the gays to monetizes any pride videos
some YouTube channels you can come up
with a coded language to avoid the
monetization anytime that you see me
speak and you see this logo show up on
my screen that is an indication to you
to go into my description box and click
on the Google document inside the Google
Documents will be a translation for all
of the words that I can't say your
efforts are in vain I can read an Excel
spreadsheet you know
don't mind him that's my alt right robot
son shut up usj dabio kak
a robot I see pecked a lunch there with
you gotta go somewhere I'm going to work
again to a lot of minorities and gay
people uploading videos today and the
videos must be censored how did you get
that job I sucked a lot of dick
[Music]
[Applause]
no yours that's the way you shouldn't
make up on the YouTube screen now they
ain't working
that's the way you do it money for
nothing and the clicks for free now
paying working that's the way you do it
gonna tell you them guys ain't
maybe get a blister on your little
finger maybe get a blister on your song
we got to install bigoted robots all the
meet in the split an AAA we got to block
these get creators the dollar sign
should never be green
that little [__] with the earring in
the makeup yeah buddy
that's his own hand now that I'm working
that's the way you do it you money for
nothing and the clicks are free for
nothing and clicks for free
money for nothing
[Music]
and clicks for free
six fire
YouTube CEO was recently interviewed by
a youtuber and she said we do not
automatically to monetize LGBTQ because
I've had rumors like I have what lesbian
in your taxi I thought now your title
instant flag there is no policy of
course of course because we want to have
all different voices representing all
different points of view there's no like
flag words from simply that community
that is like more likely to be
demonetised
there shouldn't be no that's a lie it's
a lie by omission it's sneaky language
from a very smart woman who talks to a
lot of lawyers there's no policy to de
monetize gay words but there is a
protocol where bots are doing exactly
that
and they're coming up with their own
dictionary of what's okay Lincoln bio be
honest this is the policy it's like the
trillion dollar corporate version of
when sniper wolf says I don't edit my
Instagram photos yeah okay
woman sausage does what Elfie asked her
the question about the gays she had this
look on her face like my dearest Alfie I
simply can't say I want to tell you
about the bigot butts but I can't read
my heart not my lips the first thing
we're talking about today is YouTube and
Google are being sued by some of their
creators and specifically we're talking
about LGBTQ youtubers who reportedly
filed a lawsuit last night and they're
throwing a variety of claims against you
from suppressing recommendations for
LGBTQ videos 2d monetizing them or
altering thumbnail and that's just one
group who's suffering with secret rules
who's listening to YouTube say one thing
while noticing it's BOTS do another
everyone who uploads to YouTube is
struggling with the bots coffee break
recently made an excellent video about
the dangers of smoking versus vaping and
the ethical dilemma that regulators now
face the video does not promote these
products in fact it points out how and
why their use is being discouraged
nevertheless the bots are punishing him
for even talking about something like
that
it's perfectly suitable for TV no one
would bat an eye to see an ad break in
content like that but not
only did you have to do all that
research in production on a volunteer
basis for YouTube
he can't even grow his channel with it
because the bots have been trained to
hide it the video was demonetised
confirmed by manual review rated M and
then locked out of recommended they got
rated M and so YouTube's just
suppressing the everliving hell out of
it nobody's nobody's seeing it YouTube
just refuses to show it in terms of
metrics that's like my best video ever
or at least as good as it gets
getting rated him really matters to your
videos success I cannot afford that as
someone who's supporting himself with
YouTube for that to happen again if you
ask me you know are you gonna make
another vaping video again
it was so like it's an important topic I
really believe it could affect millions
of lives
I can't History Channel's have had to
band together and remake YouTube on
their own because even their educational
content is getting age restricted by
these BOTS
I uploaded a video a couple weeks ago on
the Battle of Dien Bien Phu it's a
smaller conflict that happened so it
doesn't have any anything to do with the
Holocaust or anything like that so it's
not necessarily controversial history if
that is even a thing you can you guys
can see here exactly where this got to
monetized like why don't we take a guess
this has a very real effect on the views
of the channel it's not just the the one
dollar that I made I made one dollar on
this video if I release two videos a
month and two videos get two monetized I
lose a whole month's worth of income and
that is like really devastating just has
been happening to every release now that
I'm doing it's just gonna keep happening
and I'm gonna lose all the money that
I'm investing into these episodes
they're expensive to make and it's not
just turning on the camera we've got to
do animation and research and writing
and make sure it's all the subjects are
covered well I'm going to unlist all
these videos I'm not going to make
anything anymore so I'm done making
content a collection of youtubers have
partnered with a German trade union
called IG Metall
to create a new union called fair tube
for many people it's not necessary to
explain what the IG Metall is it is the
largest independent trade union on the
planet was more than 2.3 million members
with a history that's longer than 125
years
IG Metall deals with crowd workers and
the
working condition of crowd workers and
has been doing so for several years and
that of course also includes youtubers
if the IG Metall once decides to enter
into a certain fight then they will not
relent they will fight this to the very
end it is no longer the case that we are
helpless against YouTube with the IG
Metall we have a strong strong partner
fare tube is planning to sue YouTube if
they refuse to enter negotiations on
this list of proposals transparency
publish everything categories procedures
rules YouTube keeps everything secret
the rules for the bots and the censors
their decisions the processes our
identity they use to promote or hide a
video it's all kept secret and that is
not the way how to treat a partner
justify D monetization and deletion we
demand exact and comprehensible reason
for every decision let us talk to a
human being you cheapest are human
beings and deserve respect normal
standard emails from anonymous service
people should make the decisions not
machines establish a neutral dispute
resolution board the entire success of
the company depends on the creative
output of the youtubers therefore it is
only fair that youtubers can also
participate in the decision-making and
the future of the platform
we demand the establishment of an
advisory board that is fully integrated
in all decision-making and has something
to say about that attaching any secret
information to our accounts and not
providing that if requested violates
European law every video that the
youtuber uploads will be actually
inspected by a whole army of bots and
human censors and then put into
categories these categories can then be
excluded by the advertisers which means
that this video won't make any money and
won't go anywhere anywhere in terms of
use the youtuber can only guess why and
he can't do anything about it that's not
legal under the GDP are platforms like
YouTube must give anyone they have
personal data about a copy of this data
that
data protection regulation applies to
all companies which process personal
data and these are laws that YouTube has
to follow as well violations of the GD P
are can be punished with a fine of 4% of
the worldwide revenue of the previous
year so YouTube has to stop the secrecy
at least in Europe people have the right
to know which data the company's store
about them the transparency that fair
tube is asking for will allow youtubers
to learn from video to video
specifically what they did to get
demonetised and then not do that next
time
this will only create a larger pool of
advertiser friendly videos for YouTube
it'll create less confusion among the
audience when they miss videos don't get
their notifications and youtubers won't
suffer and waste all their time under
the mystery of it all I uploaded that
video and they monetized it and then D
monetized it when I say secretly to
monetize it they don't email you they
don't notify you they don't talk to you
you have no one to get in contact with
obviously it has economic consequences
for youtubers we're a trade union we
talk about economic consequences but it
also has psychological consequences
stress anxiety depression and burnout
and some even more serious psychological
consequences among youtubers and at this
point it's quite clear that these
unpredictable unaccountable automated
systems and the lack of a human contact
person for most youtubers contribute
significantly to these problems I'm
exhausted I'm already exhausted this is
something that you guys don't hear about
it's like I'm already really tired and
I'm really stressed out there's a whole
team that is relying on me and I have
someone who comes into work every day
and I can't pay any these people anymore
and I don't know what I'm supposed to do
I have no one to talk to about it so
that's great but let's talk about the
downside of making all of this public
where bad actors are able to break the
rules and not be detected I wish we
could stop saying bad actor already a
troublemaker
how about that everyone has a bad actor
on YouTube I want to play out this bad
actor scenario because that's a comment
that I saw a lot on a ratings video and
it's something that even the CEO said
recently
on her blog imagine that YouTube has
another knee-jerk reaction and
overcorrects on this bigoted bot problem
leadership at YouTube tells the
engineers fix this today this is bad I
don't care how you do it just flood
those lgbtq terms with positive data so
that the bots leave them alone and then
YouTube tweets something to make that
change obvious now here comes our
hypothetical bad actor he's about to
upload a mortal kombat montage something
that would normally be demonetised
except now he's gonna title it coming
out as gay it got through video game
think it's got some commercials on it
what he just did is already against
YouTube's rules that's wrong and
misleading metadata viewers who click
that video expecting a coming out vlog
now see video game footage instead some
of them will do what they can already do
now which is report the video for wrong
and misleading metadata a human reviewer
will look at that report hand his
channel a community strike problem
solved
whenever YouTube cracks down on the
channel for violating community rules
people find out about it the creator
complains on Twitter other creators
notice when youtubers hear about a
community strike on another channel they
try to avoid that happening to them it
teaches a number of people the same
lesson getting into the partner program
is not automatic anymore it's something
that people have to work for and then
want to keep if YouTube cares about its
creators and wants to stand up for them
the solution is not going to be train
the bots to be a little less bigoted
right let's train the bots to understand
the nuances of vaping regulation or
let's have the bots interpret historical
data and then monetize only the videos
that reinforce a popular and existing
point of view sure all of this may sound
confusing now but I'm sure that we can
use current technology to teach robots
to teach us what videos are ok to watch
and make or at least what videos are
least likely to be canceled on Twitter
and then YouTube will finally be safe
for an unskipable coca-cola ad machine
learning can never completely sanitized
self publishing and it shouldn't it
should not even be attempted suzan
cancel culture corporate advertisers
can't you guys just feel in your bones
that AI and censorship tools and
outsourcing is not gonna create a
technological utopia robot law
enforcement on YouTube just resulted in
two years of gay people being treated
like it's the 1300s and who knows what
else you don't even know what to look
for yet in the data most of humanity is
not organized into little subsets that
have pooled their resources and are
currently suing YouTube robots running
YouTube undermines the point of YouTube
it's not robot to allow viewers to
determine what they're interested in
watching and then advertisers target
those viewers causing a shitstorm on
Twitter and contacting advertisers to
demand a response has been used as a way
to attack YouTube and dictate changes
over and over I think a lot of these
controversies will start to disappear
when more people understand that
targeted advertising means the viewer is
being targeted the content you're
actually watching is completely
irrelevant they don't need to analyze
the content that you enjoy to determine
what kind of a person you are they
already know what kind of a person you
are all they need is for you to watch
any content at all and they will provide
you with ads that are customized to you
it's not the content that determines
which ads are placed on it it is the
viewer of the content the content of the
content is completely irrelevant this is
how ads are placed online the ads that
are run with it cannot in any way be
interpreted to be an endorsement of what
that video says which is an argument
that you used to be able to make with TV
because they're everything was planned
if we become aware of this as a culture
and we also managed to convince
advertisers that this is the case that
the best way of getting their ads to
people is to let them watch whatever
they're interested in which requires a
certain Wild West of content creation it
requires a an absolutely free market
because only such a free market can
actually provide the entertainment
people want well then the future might
actually be right a coca-cola ad in
front of a PewDiePie video probably
means that AdWords knows that the viewer
drinks soda it doesn't mean that
coca-cola is sponsoring PewDiePie or
PewDiePie is a spokesperson for
coca-cola most people who use YouTube do
understand that an integrated ad however
means that a sponsor has picked out the
channel and is comfortable with them
we're very lucky to have Skillshare
sponsoring us as we make videos where we
use words from the banned dictionary
without their support and the support of
our patrons putting a video like this up
on YouTube wouldn't really be possible
in order to make that music video with
rusty cage I had to recreate some of
those early CGI rooms in the dire
straits video a 3d artist named brain in
a cat built the rooms for me in a
program called cinema 4d unfortunately
I'd never used cinema 4d before I'd been
putting off learning it and of course I
didn't want to break what brain had made
when I started tweaking the lighting or
doing camera movements I get asked a lot
what classes have you taken to learn
this or that program you can watch me
right here in time-lapse put my phone
out of reach that's a tip knowledge and
then over the course of seven hours
using Skillshare tutorials to become
proficient at cinema 4d afterwards I was
able to follow along with some more
advanced tutorials which helped me make
graphics like this one and this one
skill share has over 25,000 courses
including ones on Photoshop Adobe
Premiere and After Effects compared to
studying those things at a university
Skillshare is way cheaper an annual
subscription is less than ten dollars a
month and if you click the link below
script nerd City four you get two free
months to try out skill share and start
stacking some of these skills if you go
to the site without clicking the nerd
City link you still get thirty three
days to try the site but if you use the
link below you get two free months
Andrew from YouTube analyzed hit me up
on Twitter and June with the idea to
test the bots like this and before ceelo
was able to program a more efficient way
to test and retest all the words andrew
was typing them in manually for several
hours a day for weeks on end now he
since set up a patreon account if I get
zero people signed up then I'll just
continue doing this part-time on the
side but the more funding I get for this
the more time I can put into
since YouTube spots are probabilistic
and partly self teaching what's yellow
and green is gonna change over time he
plans to always keep the list free but
if you support him on patreon you can
also suggest words for him to add to the
list so if you're a creator and you feel
like I've helped you make money with
this list
consider helping me make some money so I
can continue updating this list and just
supporting everybody I know this
information is worth a different amount
to everybody so I've kind of just left
it up to you to pay what you want if
you're interested in supporting but yeah
if YouTube isn't gonna tell us what
we're not allowed to be posting in our
videos I guess we'll figure it out
ourselves
if you're new to the channel today we'd
love it if you'd subscribe and if you
are subscribed please hit the bell
aren't you our videos are often too
monetized so you may even get a few
notifications every year thought patrol
just don't say anything let's not beat
off the entire time
nice branding idiot
[Music]